# IonoSpheric Outflow in Rapidly Rotating Systems (ISORRS) Model

Repository for the development of the model <br>
More scientfic information available in doi.org/10.1029/2019JA027728 and doi.org/10.1029/2019JA027727 <br>
This README file is focused more on the construction of and how to run the model <br>

## Get Started!
You can run the `ISORRS_1D_singlefieldline.py` as a function or from command line with arguments:
`python3 ISORRS_1D_singlefieldline.py 'jupiter' 0.01 100 3 25 0 0 1 1 'save file name'`
Check the docstring to see the argument meanings.

### NOTE: some files contain arguments that are not incorporated into the command line prompt yet, such as changing from 'dusk' to 'dawn' parameters within the 'ISORRS_1Dsinglefieldline_asymmetries.py' module. Please check files to ensure they are in the correct configuration before you run them. Additionally, some older modules ask for input modules that are not the current most up to date modules, so please check what modules you need to be able to run the MAIN module you are interested in.


# Contents


### ISORRS_1Dsinglefieldline.py
MAIN Module set up to run a series of iterations along a single field line at given position on planet.

### ISORRS_1Dsinglefieldline_asymmetries.py
MAIN Module created to iterate over different conditons in the auroral region. Currently allows for temperature, width, number density and field-aligned current strength to be varied over 'dawn' or 'dusk' conditions. Currently the flags for these need to be changed within the module itself (at the top) rather than through the command line.

### ISORRS_dipolefield.py
Module developed by Dave Constable at Lancaster University (2019) to generate the dipole field for the planet, centrifugal acceleration and graviational acceleration.

### ISORRS_planet.py
Module originally developed by Carley Martin at Lancaster University (2019) to contain initial conditions and functions associated with Jupiter and Saturn. Has been updated by Hannah Joyce at Lancaster University (2022) to contain updated initial conditions better representing the scale-heights of ions and neutrals in Jupiter's ionosphere. 

### ISORRS_plotting_tools.py
Module to aid with plotting. Colourblind friendly with no grid lines and inward tick markers.

### ISORRS_equations.py
Module containing the physical calculations used in the model.

### ISORRS_data_plotting.py
Module for reading in inout and output files generated by the model to specifically examine datasets and results.

### ISORRS_iterations_viewer.py 
Module for checking the percentage difference between each iteration and plotting this information in a countour plot. Can only be used after a npz file of the iteration data is obtained from running ISORRS_1Dsinglefieldline.py



## Current Work in Progress Modules - check 'work-in-progress' branch

### ISORRS_1Dsinglefileline_lax.py
Current iteration of the MAIN module working on intergrating a more robust numerical method for resolving the transport equations.

### ISORRS_lax_method.py
Lax methodology intended to be merged into the equations module at a future date if this numerical method proves to improve the current state of the model.




## Other Information

## Licence Info
Chosen the GNU Lesser license as it's the closest to the CC-BY that Lancaster required available through github. 
This license allows free distribution, use and integration with the understanding that the user will credit the authors of this model. 
At the moment, citing doi.org/10.1029/2019JA027727 is enough credit.

## References
See individual programs.
